HackMD_Templates/git.md, before:

# [slug] Version Control with Git

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit

### Links:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to Newcastle lesson website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/git-ultra-novice/)
- [Link to Carpentries official lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)
- Terminal:
  - Mac and Linux have a built in terminal.
  - ***Only Windows users***  need to use **Git for Windows** (GitBash) or MobaXterm


## https://github.com Paste your <span style="color:red">GitHub login name</span> on a new line

- carolbooth2
-
  
## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]

## GitHub links
https://github.com/login
https://github.com/settings/keys
https://github.com/NclRSE-Training/countries

### Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

### Did you get an error about ".ssh" when you tried to create ssh keys?

```
mkdir ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh
ssh-keygen
```

### GitBash not installed?
You can [download **MobaXterm Portable Edition**](https://download.mobatek.net/2522025040602403/MobaXterm_Portable_v25.2.zip) from [MobaXterm Website](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) and follow our [MobaXterm Setup guide](https://hackmd.io/@RSETeam/MobaXterm) for today's workshop.

## For Reference
### Basic Bash Commands

- `ls` list: Lists the files in your current directory
- `ls -a` list all: Lists all files, including hidden ones
- `mkdir <dirname>` make directory: Makes a new directory
- `rm <filename>` remove: Remove a file
- `rm -rf <dirname>`: remove recursively: Removes a directory and all files and directories below it (recursively)
- `cd <dirname>` change directory:  Change to specified directory
- `mv` move: Move a file to a different location or to a different name

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**

Commit message:

Update Git document formatting and links
added 'no need to log in to hackmd'

HackMD_Templates/git.md, after:

# [slug] Version Control with Git

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

### Links:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to Newcastle lesson website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/git-ultra-novice/)
- [Link to Carpentries official lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)
- Terminal:
  - Mac and Linux have a built in terminal.
  - ***Only Windows users***  need to use **Git for Windows** (GitBash) or MobaXterm


## https://github.com Paste your <span style="color:red">GitHub login name</span> on a new line

- carolbooth2
-
  
## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]

## GitHub links
https://github.com/login
https://github.com/settings/keys
https://github.com/NclRSE-Training/countries

## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

### Did you get an error about ".ssh" when you tried to create ssh keys?

```
mkdir ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh
ssh-keygen
```

### GitBash not installed?
You can [download **MobaXterm Portable Edition**](https://download.mobatek.net/2522025040602403/MobaXterm_Portable_v25.2.zip) from [MobaXterm Website](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) and follow our [MobaXterm Setup guide](https://hackmd.io/@RSETeam/MobaXterm) for today's workshop.

## For Reference
### Basic Bash Commands

- `ls` list: Lists the files in your current directory
- `ls -a` list all: Lists all files, including hidden ones
- `mkdir <dirname>` make directory: Makes a new directory
- `rm <filename>` remove: Remove a file
- `rm -rf <dirname>`: remove recursively: Removes a directory and all files and directories below it (recursively)
- `cd <dirname>` change directory:  Change to specified directory
- `mv` move: Move a file to a different location or to a different name

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
