HackMD_Templates/hpc.md, before:

# [slug] HPC Carpentry

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit


### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/hpc-intro-rocket/)
- [Link to data](http://training.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/training-materials/hpc-intro-data.tar.gz)
- [Pre-workshop survey]([pre-survey])
- [Post-workshop survey]([post-survey)
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)
- [MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) - home [portable version](https://download.mobatek.net/2532025092512146/MobaXterm_Portable_v25.3.zip)


### Your instructors
[instructors]
[helpers]

### Our HPC
- [register for unix.ncl.ac.uk](https://services.ncl.ac.uk/itservice/technical-services/unix-time-sharing/)
- [just-in-time Authorisation](https://ama.ncl.ac.uk/Role/AccessRequest)
- [Our HPC Portal](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/)
- [HPC driving test](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/quiz/)
- [Comet Partitions (Documentation Wiki)](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=started:comet_resources)

### Further links
The HPC Support Team:  
* [Email us your questions](mailto://hpc.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) at hpc.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
* [HPC Portal – self service](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/)
* [Comet Documentation Wiki](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/dokuwiki/)
* [NUService ticket](https://nuservice.ncl.ac.uk/) for tracking issues
- ARCHER2 training site: https://www.archer2.ac.uk/training/
- Induction to Comet for users of Rocket - [PowerPoint Slides](https://newcastle.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/CodeCommunity/Shared%20Documents/High%20Performance%20Computing/2026-01-07-NCL_Comet-induction.pptx?d=w6d294f7392e948578e84284891158771&csf=1&web=1&e=lprgF7)

### Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
   * [Unix Shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/instructor/aio.html)
   * [Git](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/aio.html)
   * and more (https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)
#### Online training from other institutions
* [HPC Carpentry](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/index.html) and [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/lessons/)
* [ARCHER2](https://www.archer2.ac.uk/training/) in Edinburgh
* [ASC Vienna](https://events.asc.ac.at/category/4/) in Austria

Commit message:

Revise HPC Carpentry collab doc
Updated the HPC Carpentry document with new sections and links for attendance, instructors, and useful information.

HackMD_Templates/hpc.md, after:

# [slug] HPC Carpentry

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

### Attendance:
You will be asked to show the QR code we sent to you via email

### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/hpc-intro-rocket/)
- [Link to data](http://training.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/training-materials/hpc-intro-data.tar.gz)
- [Pre-workshop survey]([pre-survey])
- [Post-workshop survey]([post-survey)
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)
- [MobaXterm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/) - home [portable version](https://download.mobatek.net/2532025092512146/MobaXterm_Portable_v25.3.zip)


## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]

## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document_ by editing text in the left pane of this document in edit mode (CTRL+ALT+B)



### Our HPC
- [register for unix.ncl.ac.uk](https://services.ncl.ac.uk/itservice/technical-services/unix-time-sharing/)
- [just-in-time Authorisation](https://ama.ncl.ac.uk/Role/AccessRequest)
- [Our HPC Portal](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/)
- [HPC driving test](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/quiz/)
- [Comet Partitions (Documentation Wiki)](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=started:comet_resources)

### Further links
The HPC Support Team:  
* [Email us your questions](mailto://hpc.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) at hpc.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
* [HPC Portal – self service](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/)
* [Comet Documentation Wiki](https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/dokuwiki/)
* [NUService ticket](https://nuservice.ncl.ac.uk/) for tracking issues
* Induction to Comet for users of Rocket - [PowerPoint Slides](https://newcastle.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/CodeCommunity/Shared%20Documents/High%20Performance%20Computing/2026-01-07-NCL_Comet-induction.pptx?d=w6d294f7392e948578e84284891158771&csf=1&web=1&e=lprgF7)

### Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
   * [Unix Shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/instructor/aio.html)
   * [Git](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/aio.html)
   * and more (https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)
#### Online training from other institutions
* [HPC Carpentry](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/index.html) and [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org/lessons/)
* [ARCHER2](https://www.archer2.ac.uk/training/) in Edinburgh
* [ASC Vienna](https://events.asc.ac.at/category/4/) in Austria
