HackMD_Templates/matlab.md, before:

# [slug] Programming with MATLAB

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/matlab-novice-inflammation)
- [Link to data](http://training.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/training-materials/hpc-intro-data.tar.gz)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)


## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]


## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

Getting MATLAB for a personal computer:
https://services.ncl.ac.uk/itservice/core-services/software/licences/specialist/matlab.html

HPC services at Newcastle:
https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/ 
Users who have an HPC project can access HPC Matlab sessions with or without GPU at https://ood01.comet.hpc.ncl.ac.uk/

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**

Commit message:

Enhance MATLAB document with attendance and installation info
Added attendance information and updated MATLAB installation instructions.

HackMD_Templates/matlab.md, after:

# [slug] Programming with MATLAB

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

### Attendance:
You will be asked to show the QR code we sent to you via email

### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/matlab-novice-inflammation)
- [Link to data](http://training.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/training-materials/hpc-intro-data.tar.gz)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)


## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]


## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

### Getting MATLAB 
Matlab is packaged for installation on University Windows computers and should be available in Software Center.
Install with the University license on a personal computer: https://services.ncl.ac.uk/itservice/core-services/software/licences/specialist/matlab.html

HPC services at Newcastle:
https://hpc.researchcomputing.ncl.ac.uk/ 
Users who have an HPC project can access HPC Matlab sessions with or without GPU at https://ood01.comet.hpc.ncl.ac.uk/

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
