HackMD_Templates/python.md, before:

# [slug] Programming with Python

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

## JupyterHub online environment:
### http://nclrse.uksouth.cloudapp.azure.com
Use your University login like **b1234567**, (don't include @newcastle.ac.uk)

The online environment will be removed after the course
### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/instructor/index.html)
- [Link to data](https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/files/python-novice-gapminder-data.zip)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)

### Attendance:
You will be asked to show the QR code we sent to you via email

## After the Workshop
The Jupyter environment we provide will be taken down straight after the course.  You can download any files you'd like to keep.
## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]

## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

### Escaping unix commands
To execute unix commands like `wget` and `unzip` in the jupyter notebook, use `!` 
e.g. `!wget https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/files/python-novice-gapminder-data.zip`


### General Python Setup instructions:
https://carpentries.github.io/workshop-template/install_instructions/#python

### Python IDEs you may like to use
- PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/ - free if you register with a Uni email address, best to use with our Comet HPC     
- Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/download - free

### Matplotlib documentation
https://matplotlib.org/

### How to find declared variables and their values
- `globals()`
- `locals()`
- In Jupyter notebook you can use the command `%whos` to print only the variables you created, their value and data type

### Banker's rounding
https://rounding.to/understanding-the-bankers-rounding/

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
Community lessons under development at https://carpentries.org/lesson-development/community-lessons

Commit message:

updated Python and related install instructions
Updated Python setup instructions for clarity and added installation details for University Windows computers.

HackMD_Templates/python.md, after:

# [slug] Programming with Python

## This document:
### https://hackmd.io/@rseteam/[slug]/edit
(_no need to log in_ to Hackmd.io)

## JupyterHub online environment:
### http://nclrse.uksouth.cloudapp.azure.com
Use your University login like **b1234567**, (don't include @newcastle.ac.uk)

The online environment will be removed after the course
### Links to keep:
- [Carpentries](https://carpentries.org)
- [RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev)
- [Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/policies/coc/)
- [Workshop website](https://nclrse-training.github.io/[slug]/)
- [Link to lesson website](https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/instructor/index.html)
- [Link to data](https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/files/python-novice-gapminder-data.zip)
- [Pre-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=[slug])
- [Post-workshop survey](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/UgVdRQ?slug=[slug])
- [Code Community](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aG79Rz7Mhk6rC0mhia04YCD-nj7WabLMxhnyb1YLp04A1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=7059214c-2200-4ad6-a739-9d350c74c7a9&tenantId=9c5012c9-b616-44c2-a917-66814fbe3e87)

### Attendance:
You will be asked to show the QR code we sent to you via email

## After the Workshop
The Jupyter environment we provide will be taken down straight after the course.  You can download any files you'd like to keep.
## Your instructors
[Email us your questions](mailto://training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk) to training.researchcomputing@newcastle.ac.uk
[instructors]
[helpers]

## Useful information:
_Everyone is welcome to add tips, tricks and comments to this document._

### Escaping unix commands
To execute unix commands like `wget` and `unzip` in the jupyter notebook, use `!` 
e.g. `!wget https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-gapminder/files/python-novice-gapminder-data.zip`


### General Python Setup instructions:
Python, PyCharm, Anaconda and Visual Studio Code are packaged for installation on University Windows computers and should be available in Software Center.
Python can be installed on a personal computer with admin rights.  Use using the [instructions from The Carpentries](https://carpentries.github.io/workshop-template/install_instructions/#python)

### Python IDEs you may like to use
- PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/ - free if you register with a Uni email address, best to use with our Comet HPC     
- Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/download - free

### Matplotlib documentation
https://matplotlib.org/

### How to find declared variables and their values
- `globals()`
- `locals()`
- In Jupyter notebook you can use the command `%whos` to print only the variables you created, their value and data type

### Banker's rounding
https://rounding.to/understanding-the-bankers-rounding/

## Other Training
**[From the Newcastle RSE Team](https://rse.ncldata.dev/events)**
Community lessons under development at https://carpentries.org/lesson-development/community-lessons
